Testing is the fifth stage in
the Design Thinking process.
In this lesson, you'll learn everything you
need to know about testing your prototypes
and collecting real user feedback.
While the Design Thinking process
is a fluid, iterative, and flexible
process, the ideal endpoint is when
the product or service meets the three tests
of desirability, feasibility, and viability.
Testing is simply the process of testing your
prototype on real users. During the test phase,
you will see how your target users interact with
your prototype and collect valuable feedback.
However, user testing can and should
be done throughout the design process.
Be sure to test early and often.
In the early stages of the process,
testing will help you get feedback on your
initial ideas. Towards the end of the process,
you test the overall usability of the product with
high-fidelity, fully-featured digital prototypes
that look and behave just like the real thing.
Testing your ideas early and often can help you
identify design flaws and usability issues before
launching the product. This saves time and money.
User testing also reveals unexpected insights.
No matter how thorough your initial user research
was, or how confident you are that you've designed
the optimal solution to your user's problem. There
are always new insights to discover.
For instance
If users experience problems, the
design team should review their list
of possible solutions and strategies to
find new ways to solve the same problems.
For example, your user observations
in tests can provide crucial insights
that can change the way you formulate the problem.
User feedback is therefore priceless.
Without understanding what users need,
the iterative process will fail. That's why you
need to use real people for testing purposes
and analyze results to determine where your
prototype succeeds and where it needs improvement.
There are several methods you can
use to test your prototypes. And
this can be performed in person or remotely:
During personal testing, you will be in the
same room as the user while they are testing your
prototype. Sometimes even in the user's natural
environment. This has the great advantage that you
can also observe the user directly, such as facial
expressions, body language and any verbal comments
the user makes while interacting with the product.
Remote user testing offers a cheaper,
more convenient alternative, but
has the disadvantage that you have little
control over the user's test environment.
Remote user testing can be
done moderated or unmoderated.
Live remote testing allows you to observe
your users, for example via a video call.
You can use a screen recording
app to capture the test, and
certain programs will also track and mark where
the user clicks in your digital prototype.
Unmoderated tests can be run through user testing
platforms such as UserZoom and usertesting.com.
When you're short on time, such tools make it easy
to run user tests quickly and with minimal effort.
However, you will not be given the opportunity
to observe the users or ask them questions.
Whether you choose to conduct in-person or
third-party user testing all depends on your
budget, time constraints, and the prototype
you are testing. Paper prototypes are best
tested in person, while digital prototypes
can be tested both remotely and in person.
So what methods can you use
to test your prototypes?
Concept testing is done in the very
early stages of the design process.
You want to test your concepts and
ideas before you actually design them.
Low-fidelity prototypes can be used to
communicate your idea to your intended users.
Then you interview your users to find
out what they think of the concept.
Is it a product or feature they want to use? Does
it have the potential to solve the user's problem?
A/B testing is used to compare two
different versions of a design.
This method can be used at any
stage of the design process,
be it paper prototypes or fully clickable
digital prototypes. In A/B testing,
you create two different prototypes and test each
version on a different set of users. For example,
you can test two different layouts or a different
one for a particular CTA button on a particular
screen. It is important to A/B test only one
variable at a time so as not to skew the results.
Usability testing is a critical user
testing method that must be used
repeatedly throughout the design process.
It shows how easy your design is to use.
Usability testing is usually an observational
exercise: you ask your users to perform certain
tasks and observe them as they do it . During the
test you see which aspects of the design caused
problems for the user and which aspects
seem to be user-friendly. By doing this,
you identify usability issues that you want to
solve in the next iteration of your prototype.
When designing an app or website, you want to
make sure that the user takes the intended action
when they land on a particular page or screen.
First-click tests show you what your users' first
steps are when they encounter an interface;
in other words, what do they click on first?
This helps you determine which images and
content to prioritize, where to place buttons,
icons, and menu items, as well as the type
of language to use for buttons and labels.
First-click testing can be performed with
both low- and high-fidelity prototypes.
Once you've figured out the information
architecture of your digital product,
you can use tree testing to see how easy
it is to use. You give the user a "tree"
of information - representative of how your
site menus would be laid out - and ask them to
find specific items. If users are having trouble
finding certain information, you should rethink
your information architecture. Our lesson
about IA in chapter 3 can help with this.
Tree testing is often conducted as an unmoderated
remote survey, but it can also be done in person.
How do you conduct a user test? Start by
making a plan for your user testing session.
It should include your objective, the testing
method, which users you will test for,
how you will document findings, and a script
or discussion guide for asking questions.
The very first thing you need to do is set
a clear goal. What do you want to learn from
your user testing? What question do you hope to
answer? By setting a clear goal, you can build
the right kind of prototype and choose the
most appropriate testing method for users.
Choose your prototype: you know what you want
to test; now it's time to build your prototype.
If you're in the very early stages of testing
an idea, stick with low-fidelity prototypes.
Once you've chosen a concept,
test it with a high-fidelity one.
Another critical aspect of user testing is
recruiting the right participants. You want to
test on users who represent your target audience,
so spend some time identifying some key criteria.
Make sure to document your findings
during each user test. You need a thorough
record of each test to analyze your observations
and compare the results of each session.
Consult your plan and make sure you have
everything you need to run the tests:
screen recording software if you're running
tests remotely, pens and paper to take
notes and of course your prototype.
Now that you have your test plan,
there are a few things to keep
in mind when doing user testing.
Remember that you are testing the prototype, not
the user. Try to resist the urge to correct them
when they misinterpret how it should be used.
User errors are valuable learning opportunities.
Show, don't tell: let your users experience
the prototype and observe their reactions.
Avoid over-explaining how your prototype works,
or how it should solve your user's problems.
When users explore and use the prototype,
ask them to tell you what they think.
Always ask questions, even if you
think you know what the user means.
When collecting feedback, be careful not to
disrupt the user's interaction with the prototype.
Try to mimic as much as possible the scenario in
which your users are likely to use the product.
Let your users compare alternatives.
Users often find it easier to explain
what they like and dislike about
prototypes when they can compare.
After a round of user testing, it's time to
analyze the results. You look for patterns
in what you have observed and the feedback
you have received. Your tests will either
confirm that something is working properly, or
will reveal issues that need to be resolved.
Either way, the insights you gain from user
testing will inform you about your next steps.
Once your test users have confirmed
that your information architecture is
extremely user-friendly, you're
ready to fine-tune the design.
Then it's time to implement the validated design.
UI and interaction designers further develop the
design and engineers ensure that the app or site
is built. Some of this work may begin as early
as the design stage, but generally the bulk of
it takes place during the implementation stage.
Depending on the company and product, many people
are involved: from copywriters, product owners,
engineers to product marketing managers.
Finally, given the iterative nature of
digital design, once a website or app is launched
to the public, continuous efforts must be made
to maintain the quality of the experience. Is the
content still relevant, or should it be updated or
discontinued? Has technology evolved, and if so,
are improvements needed in the user experience
you've created? The best user experiences are
those with content and features that are still
relevant and new, and it's the maintenance phase
that ensures how often the experience is updated.
And that doesn't mean the work is done.
Design Thinking is all about iteration
until a product is ready for launch,
but it often doesn't stop there.
Even once the product is on the market, there
is continuous testing to make improvements.
This brings us to the end of the design
process chapter. Let's summarize
what we learned in this chapter.
Testing is simply the process of evaluating your
prototype with real users. During the test phase,
you will see how your target users interact with
your prototype and collect valuable feedback.
User testing should be done throughout the
design process. Be sure to test early and often.
This can help you identify design flaws and
usability issues before launching
the product. Saving time and money.
User testing also reveals unexpected insights.
No matter how thorough your initial user research
was. There are always new insights to discover.
Whether you choose to conduct in-person or
third-party user testing all depends on your
budget, time constraints, and the prototype
you are testing. Paper prototypes are best
tested in person, while digital prototypes
can be tested both remotely and in person.
There are several methods you can use to
test your prototypes. We’ve discussed.
Concept testing
A/B testing
Usability testing
First-click testing
Tree testing
Finally I showed you how to conduct a user test.
Start by making a plan for your user testing
session. It should include your objective,
the testing method, which users you will
test for, how you will document findings, and a
script or discussion guide for asking questions.
Now it's time to dive deeper
into the eight disciplines of UX,
including Usability
Accessibility
User Research
Cognitive Psychology
Information Architecture
Content Strategy
Interaction design
and Visual design
. You will learn more about each of these areas
in the next chapter. See you in the next lesson.